Work come back and from previously we know that the document is the dorm the document object model and
this is what the key is to manipulate h tim L. So we've been using get element by id where we've been
grabbing an element from the document and using the ID and then pulling that back in and making use
of it within our Javascript.
So in this lesson I want to show you more about what's available within the document object how you
can traverse through the document object get information about a button and a whole lot more.
So taking a quick look at our script.
So we've got an input button.
It's got go.
You r l.
So it's got an On Click event within it.
So let's open that up within our browser refresh that and we'll take a closer look at what's available
with the dorm.
So we look at all the different elements.
Let's pop over to the console and word to console directory.
So a list out document and this time we're actually going to grab the my form object so that we can
take a closer look and see what's available within this object.
So by using Konsole dry this gives us a directory listing of all the information contained within our
element within our object.
And then we can see more information about it so we can see that it's got enraged him.
So it's got that input.
And when we look when we scroll down we can see that we've got all of these on click events.
So we've got a lot of those and we are going to be going through those.
So these are really important as well when you're creating that interaction within the dorm.
We've got our age to e-mail we've got scroll positions so we've got a lot of information in there that
we have access to within our javascript so we can actually even see more.
So if I go into here and if I do document and so document body so we know that the document object has
body and then there's children within here.
So we saw that earlier within the dorm and within the children so to see what children are available.
So basically what we've gone in and we've gone through a few levels that are available within the dorms.
We started out at the documents so this was the route where we started out.
We went into body because we know within our script our next element is the body and then the body itself
has children.
So what are the children that are available within the body.
So we know that we've got three different children here.
We've got a div we've got a form and we've got a script and we also have this one up here in my form
and we've got the wrapper.
So the wrapper is as a div wrapper and the my form is a form and this is why we were able to previously
where we could go document my form and then we could go within the form and we could see what children
are there.
And then we could go you are l and then we could see value.
And this is where we are able to pull back the value that's contained within that URL so we can also
go up one level so we know that there's multiple inputs here within the children.
And if I go to input so we don't have an ID for this input because this is the one if we go down we
see we've got our on click event.
So that's this one over here.
So we know that we're looking at.
So we've got this input here.
This one had an ID and this one actually didn't have an ID.
So but we can still see it and we can still access it within our
javascript via the door.
So we know that children and it's got zero.
And then child number one and then this is where we've got our information.
So let's let's try something out and we're going to try to update the value of this button simply by
accessing content within the dorm so we know that it's we can go document we can go my form and then
we can go within the form.
So we know that there was children within the form and we know with them those children.
So we go back out here.
So there's there's the input that we're after.
And let's let's do children again so pull that one back up and we'll do children one.
So this is where we can get access to that particular element.
And the good thing about Crome is whenever I hover over it you can see that it also hovers over here
as well and it gives us more information about that.
So if I pull this back and if I do value and let's say let's do hello world.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
So if you said this value is actually going to update and change the hello world you're correct because
we actually can't access any one of the elements within the document within this type of format.
Because remember again that this is an object and just as we saw earlier with objects we can go through
all the different objects that are inside of other objects and going down from the parent into the children
into the children and then we have access to them.
And there's a number of built in methods as well that are available to us and we also know what we can
do within the console we can do it within Javascript.
So if I was to grab this and if I was to open up my editor and with him here I pasted in I save it I
go back out and if I refresh my page that we know that we can do the same thing where we can update
that button.
So what I want you to do now is try it for yourself.
So if you already have a simple web page open go ahead and open that up and try it out.
Traverse to the various elements and try updating some of the values within it directly within the console
to get really familiar with how you can traverse down through the different elements and you can try
it for yourself as well you can go to your favorite web page.
So open up your favorite web page any web page and try this for yourself so you can go down and you
can do document and we know that everything is within body and then within the body so the body has
some children so we can see that this particular one has body children and there's a number of elements
in there.
So we've got the third child in there.
And so maybe Let's just grab the third one and we'll update the inner h Tamal with it.
And also you can have some fun with this as well.
So we know that children and if we grab the third one and we've got an option that we can do in our
age to Mel and update it.
So this one is Google's Web site.
So let's update it.
So watch when I press Enter what happens to that element.
And we see that now we've updated it to say Google and we've gotten rid of that whole Google logo and
now it just says Google.
So this is what we can do.
And this really shows the power of the Dohrmann remember again that this is just for that instance of
the Web site that's being loaded that we didn't actually change any of Google's source code.
It's just the instance of the Web site that's been loaded in the dorm that we have access to and that
we can change and manipulate really easily.
We can also go down several other layers if we want so we can maybe erase this one as well.
And let's try to get to that import form
so that one is the form itself and then the form itself is going to have to children in their so it
can be kind of challenging.
But you can get the idea that you can actually go down and you can update quite a bit of what you're
doing within the dorm and you can see that the children also have children and you can go all the way
down and he could also pull back things like the ID.
So we see that this children there's an ID there so we can pull back the ID of the element and so on.
So we can pull back a whole bunch of information we can also get the name if we want.
So do try it out for yourself and see what you can do.
We can also get the type.
So any one of these attributes we can pull back and basically this means that we can make use of it
within our Javascript.
So go ahead try it for yourself and get used to traversing through the dorm and being able to select
various elements using the document body method.